# What is React?

React is a `JavaScript library` used for building `user interfaces (UIs)`, especially for `single-page applications (SPAs)`. It allows developers to create reusable UI components that update efficiently when data changes.

React was developed by Facebook (now Meta) and is widely used in web development for its `fast rendering, component-based structure, and reactivity`.

## Important concepts in React?
To understand how react works, you must know the below concepts:

- **Components**: Independent, reusable pieces of UI (can be class-based or functional).
- **JSX**: A syntax extension for JavaScript that looks similar to HTML and is used to describe UI.
- **Props**: Inputs to components.
- **State**: Local data storage that influences how the component behaves or renders.
- **Virtual DOM**: A lightweight representation of the real DOM that React uses to optimize updates.

React works by using a `virtual DOM (Document Object Model)` to optimize rendering and make applications fast. Let’s break it down step by step.

### React components

React applications are built using `components`. **A component is a reusable piece of UI that can manage its own logic and state**. 
The below example demonstrate a simple `react component`:

```tsx
import React from "react";

const HelloWorld = () => {
  return <h1>Hello, World!</h1>;
};

export default HelloWorld;
```

In this example:
- We import React.
- We define a function component (HelloWorld).
- The component returns **JSX** (<h1>Hello, World!</h1>).
- We export the component so it can be used elsewhere.


**JSX (JavaScript XML)** is a syntax extension that lets you write HTML inside JavaScript. 
JSX is converted to JavaScript behind the scenes, for example the above JSX will be translate as:
```js
React.createElement("h1", null, "Hello, World!");
```

### Virtual DOM & Rendering

**React does not directly manipulate the real DOM**. Instead, it uses a `Virtual DOM`, which is a lightweight copy of the real DOM.


When data changes, React `compares the new Virtual DOM with the previous one`. It finds the `differences` (diffing algorithm) and `updates only the changed parts` in the real DOM (efficient rendering).


### State and Props

React uses `state and props` to manage data.

A **State** is the `component’s private data`. A `State can be changed` over time by using the **useState hook**.
In the below code example **count** is a state of component `Counter`.

```tsx
import React, { useState } from "react";

const Counter = () => {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {count}</p>
      <button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
               Increment
       </button>
    </div>
  );
};

export default Counter;

```

A **Props** is the data which the parent components pass to child components. It's **read-only**. In the below example, the `name="Alice"` is the props which
the parent component `App` passes to child component `Greeting`.

```tsx
const Greeting = ({ name }: { name: string }) => {
  return <h2>Hello, {name}!</h2>;
};

const App = () => {
  return <Greeting name="Alice" />;
};

```

### React Hooks

**React Hooks** are special functions that allow `functional components` to use state and other React features.

Below are some important hooks:
- **useState** : Manages component state.
- **useEffect** : Handles side effects (like fetching data).
- **useContext** : Manages global state.

Example of useEffect (runs code when the component mounts):

```tsx
import React, { useEffect } from "react";

const Example = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    console.log("Component Mounted!");
  }, []);

  return <p>Check the console!</p>;
};

```
