# Create a react app skeleton

React team announced the deprecation of **Create React App (CRA)** on February 14, 2025. And now, the recommended way to create a react project is
to use `vite`.


## 0. Prepare your development environment

to run below command, you must has installed node.js on your machine

## 1. Use vite to build the app skeleton

You can find the official doc of vite [here](https://vite.dev/guide/)

```shell
# Build a project skeleton by using vite
npm create vite@latest my-react-app -- --template react-ts

# install the dependencies
npm install

# run the app in dev mode
npm run dev
```

> If you don't use the option template, you will be prompt with a suit of selection such as 
> - framework: (e.g. vanilla, react, etc.)
> - variant (e.g. javascript, typescript, etc.) 

## 2. Architecture of the React+Vite project

If everything worked well, you should see the below project architectrure

```shell
my-react-app/
├── eslint.config.js
├── index.html
├── node_modules
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── public
├── README.md
├── src
├── tsconfig.app.json
├── tsconfig.json
├── tsconfig.node.json
└── vite.config.ts
```

### 2.1 eslint.config.js (Optional)

This file stores `ESLint configuration` for code linting. It helps devs to catch errors and enforce coding style.


### 2.2 index.html

This file is the main entry point of your application. Below is an example of the generated `index.html`

```html
<body>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script type="module" src="/src/main.tsx"></script>
  </body>
```

> You can notice, it calls the `src/main.tsx` file.

### 2.3 node_modules/

This folder contains all **installed dependencies** of your project. **Never modify** this folder manually.
It gets regenerated when you run `npm install`.

### 2.4 package.json and package-lock.json

The `package.json` file stores the project `metadata & dependencies`.
It Defines:
- Project name, version, author, etc.
- Dependencies (react, vite, typescript).
- Scripts (npm run dev, npm run build).

The `package-lock.json` ensures consistent package versions. It's auto-generated when you run `npm install`.

### 2.5 public/

This folder contains `static assets` like images, fonts, and icons.
Files in this folder are served as-is (e.g., public/logo.png is available at http://localhost:5173/logo.png).
It contains typically `favicon.ico`.

### 2.5 README.md

This file contains the documentation for your project.

It usually contains:

- Project description.
- How to install and run it.
- Usage and contribution guide.

For example

```text
# My React App

A simple React app using Vite.

## Installation

`npm install`

```

### 2.6 src/(Main Application Code)

This folder contains all `React components, styles, and logic`. It usually contains the below files/folders

```text
src/
├── App.css
├── App.tsx
├── assets
├── index.css
├── main.tsx
└── vite-env.d.ts
```

- **App.tsx**:	Main React component
- **main.tsx**:	Renders `<App />` inside index.html
- **components/**: Reusable React components
- **assets/**: Images, icons, etc.
- **index.css**: Global styles


### 2.7 tsconfig.json and tsconfig.app.json

The `tsconfig.json` file specify the `TypeScript configuration`.
It typically defines the rules for TypeScript compilation.

The `tsconfig.app.json` file extends `tsconfig.json` but focuses on React app settings.
Sometimes used for differentiating app vs. build settings.


### 2.8 tsconfig.node.json (For Node.js Specific Config)

This file is used for `Vite configuration when handling Node.js files`.
It helps with server-side TypeScript (e.g., Vite plugins).

### 2.9 vite.config.ts
This file hosts `configuration for Vite`, the bundler.
It defines:
- Plugins.
- Build options.
- Server settings.


## 3. Reset app dependencies

If you have installed some unwated dependencies in your project, you can remove all and rebuild a new one with the below command

```shell
# go to your project folder
cd my-react-app

# remove dependencies and lock file
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json

# build new dependencies
npm install
```

> If you clone a new project, when your run the project, you have missing dependencies, you need to run **npm install** to get all required dependencies.

## 4. Add tailwind to your project

You can find the official doc [here](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/using-vite)

