# Browser environment, specs

The JavaScript language was initially created for web browsers. Since then, it has evolved into a language with many uses and platforms.

A platform may be a browser, or a web-server or another host, or even a “smart” coffee machine if it can run JavaScript. Each of these provides platform-specific functionality. The JavaScript specification calls that a host environment.

A host environment provides its own objects and functions in addition to the language core. Web browsers give a means to control web pages. Node.js provides server-side features, and so on.

Here’s a bird’s-eye view of what we have when JavaScript runs in a web browser:

https://javascript.info/browser-environment

JS can access many browser object and do operations on them, for example

- window
- screen
- location
- document
- history


##  DOM (Document Object Model)

The DOM (Document Object Model) is a tree-like representation of a web page's structure, generated by the browser when it loads HTML.

- Each HTML element becomes a node in the tree.
- The DOM is live, meaning it updates in real time as the HTML changes.
- It allows JavaScript to interact with the page: read, modify, create, or delete elements.

### DOM Structure example

For example, when browser loads the below html

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <h1 id="title">Hello</h1>
    <button>Click me</button>
  </body>
</html>
```

A DOM will be generated with the below structure

```text
Document
 └── html
     ├── head
     └── body
         ├── h1#title
         └── button
```

### JavaScript interact with DOM

JavaScript uses the `DOM API` to **manipulate and respond** to HTML elements.

```js
// 1. Selecting Elements
const heading = document.getElementById('title');
const button = document.querySelector('button');

// 2. Changing Content
heading.textContent = 'Updated Title';

// 3. Changing Styles
heading.style.color = 'blue';

// 4. Responding to Events
button.addEventListener('click', () => {
  alert('Button clicked');
});

// 5. Creating elements
const p = document.createElement('p');
p.textContent = 'New paragraph';
document.body.appendChild(p); 
```